Welcome to the
eLearning session,
Getting Started with
Ensemble: Complex Record Maps.
The Record Mapper was
introduced in Release 2012.1
to provide an easy
interface for handling
the limited or
fixed-width files.
It provides support
for complex structures
with configurable
delimiters, nested fields,
and control over the
generated object model.
However, it is restricted to
files where all records have
the same structure.
But Complex Record Mapper,
introduced in Release 2013.1,
is designed to handle situations
where file has a mix of lines
with different structures.
To use the Complex
Record Mapper on a file,
it must be possible to
map all individual records
with the normal Record Mapper.
Then the individual
record maps are
used to define the
complex record map.
The simplest case is a file
with a header or trail records.
But complex record mapping also
supports repeated sequences
of different types of
records in the same file,
as in the example of the
semester, student, and class
information.
A very simple example
would be the file
with all of this
information for one student.
Except in the simplest case,
the leading data for each record
must identify the
type of each record.
Here, the leading
four characters
indicate the record type.
And you can see a semester
record starting with SEM |.
A student record
starts with STU |.
And the details of all
the classes the student
is attending starts with CLS |.
The data itself is delimited by
semicolons in all the records.
To create a complex
record map, the first step
is to create a record map for
each line that could possibly
occur in the file.
In this case, we will have
three possible records.
We will look at each
one of these in turn
in the ENSDEMO namespace.
In the Ensemble
Management Portal,
we will go to Ensemble,
Build, Record Maps.
And let's open the record
maps that we've already
created for the semester,
student, and class layouts.
First, we will take a look at
the SemesterHeader information.
Here, we see the
SemesterHeader record
defined by a normal record map.
It has four fields.
It uses a semicolon
as a delimiter.
But most importantly, it
has the leading data SEM |.
Also, be sure that Allow Complex
Record Mapping is checked.
This record map is very simple.
But it could use any of the
features of the Record Mapper.
When developing the
individual record maps,
you may want to create a sample
text file for each record type,
as we've done here, so you can
verify that your record map is
accurate.
Then let's take a look
at the student record. .
Again, the student
record is very simple.
It has seven fields.
It uses the same delimiter
as the semester header.
But it didn't have to.
The leading data is STU |.
And finally, we will look
at the class information.
And it has four fields
with leading data CLS |.
The Complex Record Mapper
will use the leading data
to identify each type of
record it is processing.
Now, let's create the
complex record map
by going to Ensemble,
Build, Complex Record Maps.
We will create a new record map
called eLearning.OneStudent.
In our example, the semester
record is the header.
So we will click on Header.
Provide a name, and select
the SemesterHeader record map.
Next, we will add the
student and class record maps
to this complex record map.
So we'll click on
the green + sign.
And our new record
will be called Student.
And we will use the Student
record map already defined.
And similarly, we will
add a Class record,
using the ClassInfo record map.
And this one repeats
because there
could be more than one
class that the student is
taking in this semester.
We will now save our complex
record map definition
and generate the
appropriate classes.
Let's take a look at
another example that's
slightly more realistic, but
still a very simple example.
This file has the same structure
as the OneStudent example.
However, we have
multiple students
each taking multiple
classes within the semester.
So we need a slightly different
complex record map definition
for this.
So we will create a new
complex record definition.
And this one will be called
eLearning.ManyStudents.
The header will be
the same as before.
Now, we will add an
element called Students.
And we'll make this
a repeating sequence.
Within the student's
sequence, we
will add one record for the
student using the Student
record map, and another
for the classes,
using the ClassInfo,
which could be repeating
within the student's sequence.
We will save this and
generate the classes.
Now, let's look at how we
would use this in a Production.
For Complex Record
Maps, we provide
file and FTP Business Services
and Business Operations.
Unlike the ordinary
Record Mapper,
all Complex Record Maps
are treated as batches.
So the only options are the
batch Services and Operations.
So let's open up an existing
Production that is empty.
Let's first add
Business Operation.
That will utilize
the EnsLib.RecordMap
.Operation.Compl
exBatchFileOperation.
We will call this operation
CollegeDataOut and enable it.
There are some additional
settings that we need to apply.
The file path for the
output information will be
c:ComplexDataOut.
The file name will be %f, so we
have the name of the original
file.
And the complex map to be used
will be eLearning.ManyStudents.
And we will apply our changes.
Next, we will add a Business
Service that will utilize
the EnsLib.RecordMap
.Service.Complex
BatchFileService.
And the service name
will be CollegeDataIn.
This will also be enabled.
And we will utilize
the same complex map.
The Target Config will
be CollegeDataOut.
The file path is ComplexDataIn.
And the File Spec is
anything that ends in .txt.
Let's briefly look at
the directory structure
where we have our complex data
directory with the In and Out
directories.
And in the complex
data In Director,
we have the ManyStudents text
file that we have previously
examined.
Let's start the
production, which will only
pick up the text file
from the In Directory
and move it to
the Out Directory.
If we now examine
our In Directory,
we will see that it is empty.
And the Out Directory now
contains the ManyStudents
complex record.
In a real application, you
will have Business Processes
to deal with the complex record
data that has been read in.
You have been watching
the eLearning session,
Getting Started with
Ensemble: Complex Record Maps.